#  **Getting Started with R-Notebook**

![](vertopal_daaeff276a9945d39671c107e49a6910/4051866ab8e6d21e5770013616e55109ebc3997a.png){width="6.989341644794401in"
height="2.5520833333333335in"}

## 

## **1. Get Started**

R-Notebook is a popular IDE for R-programming language. It comes up with
a console, syntax-highlighting editor, through which one can directly
execute the code. It comprises of different tools for plotting,
debugging, history and workspace management. It is open-source and also
available as commercial editions. It can run on desktop and even
browsers.

Most of the developers struggle while installing the R-Notebook. If it
is not properly installed then all your codes fail to execute. Even if
it is installed successfully, it has issues of crashing. Sometimes it
won\'t even start. But if you are using the R-studio available on
Katonic\'s MLops Platform you will not come across such problems.
Katonic platform provides a one-stop solution to all the data
scientists\' problems. It comes with integrated tools that are very
popular and most frequently used for Data Science Life Cycle. Since
everything runs on the cloud so you don\'t have to worry about your
system spaces being utilized by such heavy tools.

This tutorial will guide you to use the R-Notebook on the platform for
writing R-scripts.

### **1.1 Sign In**

Open the login page to try the Katonic platform.

Enter Email and Password and click on the **"Sign In"** button to sign
in to the Katonic platform.

### **1.2 Orient yourself to the Katonic platform**

When you first log in, you will find yourself in the Dashboard section
of Katonic. You can use the left sidebar to navigate to other sections
of Katonic Platform.

1.  To view the platform in full screen click on the **"full-screen
    mode"** on the top right of the page.

2.  If you would like to search the Katonic documentation for help,
    click on the **"?"** icon on the top right of the page.

3.  To send a question to a member of the Katonic support staff, use the
    Support button on the bottom right of the page.

### **1.3 Create your workspace**

1.  From the **Workspace** on the left panel, Click on **'Create
    Workspace'** in the top right side of the page.

Fill the following details there:

-   **Name** : fill your workspace name.

-   **Select Environment:** select **JupyterLab**. as environment.

-   **Image**: Select **Katonic-R-Julia**.

-   **Resources**: Select Compatible compute resources for your task.

### **1.4 Start Workspace**

1.  Once you create a workspace you could see it will be in
    **\'Processing\'** state.

2.  Once the Workspace has started it will show the connect button with
    which you can connect to the R-Studio.

3.  When you connect, a new session is created on a machine and your
    browser is automatically redirected to the Notebook UI.

4.  Once your Workspace is up and running, you will see a fresh
    interface.

5.  Click on the \"+\" icon from the top left of the page.

6.  Select the **R** in Notebook option to open a blank R Notebook page.

7.  You can write your R code into the R Notebook created in the step 6.

### **1.5 Get your Files and Data** 

Files and Data can be created in the same environment or can be cloned
from GitHub. In this section, we will be showing you how can you clone
data and files from our open-source examples available on GitHub.

Click [here](https://github.com/katonic-dev/R-Examples) for Katonic use
cases repository.

1.  From a **New Launcher** tab open **Terminal**.

2.  Once you open the terminal clone the repo [URI
    Link](https://github.com/katonic-dev/R-Examples) that is available
    in GitHub Repository using below command.

*git* clone <https://github.com/katonic-dev/R-Examples>

4.  Go to **"File Manager"** in the left bar.

5.  Go to location "/R-Examples/iris_notebooks/".

6.  Open **.ipynb** file to run. For Example open **read_data.ipynb**.

7.  You can run your script clicking **Run** button.

**Note:** All the development work can be performed here. Single script
could be broken down into multiple smaller scripts each defining a
specific task, where in the result of one script can be saved in the
file so that it can be used by further downstream scripts.

Once these scripts are ready we can download them and upload to Katonic
Studio Workspace if you want to convert these scripts to pipeline.

It is good practice to upload your scripts to GitHub for maintaining
control over it\'s versions. So once you have made changes to any file
do not forget to commit those changes and push it back to GitHub.

Follow the instructions of the
[documentation](https://docs.katonic.ai/Getting-started/From-R-Scripts-to-Kubeflow-Pipeline-using-Katonic-Studio)
to convert your scripts into pipeline.
